We are going to begin our
second exercise of the day,
which is to take an app that
already has some data in it.
And we're going to add some
Facebook Open Graph meta tags.
Then we're gonna deploy
this website to Heroku.
Just doing another git push Heroku master.
And we're gonna use Facebook's tool to see
the data that's available on our new site.
So I'm gonna begin by
showing you the data.
I'm gonna show you how to switch Heroku to
this new like little mini app that we're
working on.
And I'm gonna show you this Facebook
tool that you can use to kind of
see how your URL looks from
the perspective of Facebook.
So we'll go in that order.
First off, the data that
you're using looks like this.
And if you installed the JSON-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Thank you,
if you installed the JSON
view Chrome extension,
you may end up with nice formatting
like I have here on the right.
Otherwise, it might be a bunch of
the same characters all on one line.
But here's what I want you to see
that we've got a list of things.
And these things have an object
called attributes and
then lots of stuff on those attributes.
All of this data is free for
you to use in your HTML.
So if we look at what we have in our
Open Graph folder here, we've got an index
page and that's gonna represent the list
of courses that we're showing here.
These are different courses I teach, and
then a page that represents sort of
the view of an individual course.
So let me run this and
I'll show you the HTML and
then you can kind of see how
everything lines up, run- e opengraph.
And we'll look at localhost 3000.
And we'll see that it changes from
the deploy instructions to this list you
see here.
And each one of these has a URL and when
you click on this, you end up at a page
here that has the description and
the larger image and so on.
And we can go back and and it's fine.
So if you're curious is how this works,
there's a router js file that just
involves fetching data from a URL and
then rendering one of these two HBS files.
You don't need to touch it just in case
you're curious as to how it works.
And the mid of this is in index.hbs and
course.hbs.
Index.hbs is where we're
building this course list.
And you can see here
like this is the h1 tag.
Here's the UL and
then these are the items for each course.
And you can see we do
course.attributes.slug for example.
That we can find in the data,
sorry, like right here.
So that's what we're
using to build our links.
So any of these things that are available
in the attribute section or
these JSON objects themselves, there
are available to you in order to use.
In particular I want you to pay attention
to image info because you'll need to
kind of pick the appropriate one for
Facebook.
Just a hint, one of these images
begins with the letters fb.
I don't know maybe that's
a hint of some sort.
So here's what we wanna do.
So here's the API endpoint and
it's in this slide.
You can click the link.
You can see it in your browser.
I advise that JSON view Chrome extension.
Hopefully you can kind of understand
that this is HTML with extras,
this hbs file here.
And you don't have to touch the each,
but just understand that this L-I thing,
this is repeated over and
over again for the list of courses.
So if you change something
in here like if I did this,
if I did like three tildes before it,
we would see when we
refresh the page there are three
tildes in front of everything.
So it's sort of just,
it's almost like looping over it.
It is looping over it.
So anything you change here would end
up changing and then in course.hbs,
we end up using just the variable course
in these little expressions here.
So that's where we get course colon and
then the name of the course
that's coming from this tag here.
So just look at the data,
look at that section called attributes,
make reasonable assumptions
about what you can use.
Like if we copy this and
paste it elsewhere.
We'll paste it twice,
we'd end up with the course title twice.
So it kinda works the way
you would expect it to work.
And if you wanna learn
more about handlebars,
check out the Intro to Ember 2.x series.
The first couple sections of that course
will give you a little bit more depth
into how templates like this work.
You shouldn't need to
go all that deep today.
So, the last thing I wanna show you
is the Facebook open graph debugger.
So you have a link to this in the slide
in the deck that had all of my favorite
tools.
It was the first slide in the SEOO,
or in the social metadata section.
And this is what the tool looks like,
right?
It basically starts with a single field,
and you paste a URL in that.
So we can do that with,
I'll pick one of my courses here.
Or we can just do it like this, yeah.
So do embercli Basics,
grab this URL, paste.
So you can see here I have,
I'm missing my OG type property which
means I'm falling back to a website.
So that's a warning, that's not an error.
But you can see here's my canonical URL.
Here's my link preview.
You see I've got a description here,
I've got a title.
And then here we can see the different
meta tags that it's found.
And it's sort of resolve to so
here I left out OG type but
it's falling back to website.
So I see the value for website here.
You can actually open this up and
see all of the different metadata
that was available on this type.
And you can even see, we're gonna start
dealing with Twitter later on and
I have some more stuff there.
So you're gonna use this Open Graph
tool and put your Heroku URLs in here.
Both for the Index page and each course
and we should see like the thumbnail come
up really nicely,
we should see a nice description.
You should help Facebook figure out how
to make it so that when we share links
from the site, you have a nice
rich tile instead of just a URL.
And then I will go through my solution
to this in about 20 minutes and
we'll see where we're at.
But all of the meta tags that you need to
use are things we've already discussed.
So just remember, look at the JSON,
look at the Open Graph debugger.
And if you have any questions about
handlebars, or like what you're allowed
to do in there, just shout out and I will
come and make sure you have what you need.
See you in 20 minutes.